h1. acts_as_audited

+acts_as_audited+ is an ActiveRecord extension that logs all changes to your
models in an audits table, with optional revision comments. +acts_as_audited+
has been updated to work with Rails 3, to use it with older version of Rails,
please see the <tt>1.1-stable</tt> branch.

h2. Installation

In <tt>Gemfile</tt>:

@gem "acts_as_audited", "2.0.0"@

In your application root, run:

@$ bundle install@

Generate the migration:

* If installing without a previous version of +acts_as_audited+ or you do not mind overwriting your audits table:

@$ rails g acts_as_audited:install@

* If upgrading from a previous version of +acts_as_audited+ you might need some alterations to the audits table:

@$ rails g acts_as_audited:upgrade@

* After running one of the generators:

@$ rake db:migrate@

h2. Rails deprecation warning

Currently the gem causes the following deprecation warning to be emitted:

@DEPRECATION WARNING: reorder is deprecated. Please use except(:order).order(...) instead. (called from <class:Audit> at /Users/kenneth/Code/FOSS/acts_as_audited/lib/acts_as_audited/audit.rb:26)@

I'm well aware of the fact, and working towards a solution. The issue has also been brought up on the Rails lighthouse as "#6011":https://rails.lighthouseapp.com/projects/8994/tickets/6011-exceptorderorder-is-not-working-in-scopes. I'm keeping an eye on the issue and working towards another possible solution.

h2. Upgrading

Upgrading to Rails 3, or even between point releases of +acts_as_audited+, might require alterations to the audits table. After every upgrade please run the following generator:

@$ rails g acts_as_audited:upgrade@

The upgrade generator will only generate migrations that are missing, or no migrations at all if you are up to date.

h2. Usage

Declare +acts_as_audited+ on your models:

<pre><code>class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  acts_as_audited :except => [:password, :mistress]
end
</code></pre>

Within a web request, will automatically record the user that made the change if your controller has a +current_user+ method. Comments can be added to an audit by setting <tt>model.audit_comments</tt>
before create/update/destroy. If the <tt>:comment_required</tt> option is given to +acts_as_audited+,
the save/update/destroy action will fail with add an error on <tt>model.audit_comment</tt> and triggering a
transaction rollback if <tt>model.audit_comment</tt> is nil.

To record an audit for an associated model, use the <tt>:associated_with</tt> option.

<pre><code>class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  acts_as_audited :associated_with => :company
end
</code></pre>

If desired, the associated model can access its audits using <tt>has_associated_audits</tt>.

<pre><code>class Company < ActiveRecord::Base
  has_many :users
  has_associated_audits
end
</code></pre>

To record a user in the audits outside of a web request, you can use +as_user+:

<pre><code>Audit.as_user(user) do
  # Perform changes on audited models
end
</code></pre>

h2. Caveats

If your model declares +attr_accessible+ after +acts_as_audited+, you need to set <tt>:protect</tt> to false. acts_as_audited uses +attr_protected+ internally to prevent malicious users from unassociating your audits, and Rails does not allow both +attr_protected+ and +attr_accessible+. It will default to false if +attr_accessible+ is called before +acts_as_audited+, but needs to be explicitly set if it is called after.

<pre><code>class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  acts_as_audited :protect => false
  attr_accessible :name
end
</code></pre>

Another caveat is documented in "issue 26":https://github.com/collectiveidea/acts_as_audited/issues#issue/26, where an audit created on the first request to the server does not have a user. Please review the Github issue for more details on how to fix this. It does not appear to affect Rails 3.

h2. Compatability

+acts_as_audited+ works with Rails 3.0.3 – 3.1.0. For older versions of Rails, please see the <tt>1.1-stable</tt> branch.

h2. Getting Help

Review the documentation at "http://rdoc.info/github/collectiveidea/acts_as_audited":http://rdoc.info/github/collectiveidea/acts_as_audited

Join "the mailing list":http://groups.google.com/group/acts_as_audited for getting help or offering suggestions.

h2. Branches

The <tt>master</tt> branch is considered stable, and you should be able to use it at any time.

h2. Contributing

In the spirit of "free software":http://www.fsf.org/licensing/essays/free-sw.html, **everyone** is encouraged to help improve this project.

Here are some ways *you* can contribute:

* using alpha, beta, and prerelease versions
* reporting bugs
* suggesting new features
* writing or editing documentation
* writing specifications
* writing code (**no patch is too small**: fix typos, add comments, clean up inconsistent whitespace)
* refactoring code
* closing "issues":https://github.com/collectiveidea/acts_as_audited/issues
* reviewing patches

h2. Submitting an Issue

We use the "GitHub issue tracker":https://github.com/collectiveidea/acts_as_audited/issues to track bugs
and features. Before submitting a bug report or feature request, check to make sure it hasn't already
been submitted. You can indicate support for an existing issuse by voting it up. When submitting a
bug report, please include a "Gist":https://gist.github.com/ that includes a stack trace and any
details that may be necessary to reproduce the bug, including your gem version, Ruby version, and
operating system. Ideally, a bug report should include a pull request with failing specs.

h2. Submitting a Pull Request

1. Fork the project.
2. Create a topic branch.
3. Implement your feature or bug fix.
4. Add specs for your feature or bug fix.
5. Run @bundle exec rake@. If your changes are not 100% covered and passing, go back to step 4.
6. Commit and push your changes.
7. Submit a pull request. Please do not include changes to the gemspec, version, or history file. (If you want to create your own version for some reason, please do so in a separate commit.)
